# WIPER CONTROL SYSTEM

## Abstract:

It’s easy to underestimate exactly how important proper visibility is while driving. Proper windshield wiper maintenance is an area many vehicle owners don’t consider regularly, and it’s easy to forget living in areas that might only require the use of the vehicle’s wiper blades one or two times a month. Today, most of us take our electric windshield wipers for granted. The wipers faithfully keep the window clear, moving back and forth across the windshield countless times as they sweep the water away. The wiper serves to clean the windshield of the car at the front and rear, although not all cars have wipers on the rear side. Wiper works by removing oil, dust, rainwater, and dirt that get stuck to the windshield. Windshield wipers are a small part of your car, but they have a big impact on your driving and overall safety. They remove rain, snow, dirt, pollen, frost and other debris quickly and smoothly at the push of a button! The windshield wiper motor moves the windshield wiper arms across the windshield. The metal or hard plastic arms drag a thin rubber (or silicone) blade across the windshield to clear away water, giving you a better view of the road.

When the wiper switch is in the off position, the wiper will not function. When the wiper switch is in low-speed mode, the wiper will work at low speed. Accordingly, when the wiper switch is in high-speed mode, the wiper will work at a fairly high speed. The main aim of this project is to prevent the accidents which happens during the rainy days and aslo when the vehicle windshield is blurred with water and dust. Safety in a travel is a very important factor we consider in our day today life because we live in a very dynamic and a busy lifestyle. As a result the tendency of making failures in critical moments could create a fatal mistake and it could lead even to lose lives. To ensure maximum safety nowadays the researches and design engineers put their maximum efforts. The technology adopts to enhance daily routines has become a trend in the recent times and have produced many of such tools for travel and transportation. The impact on travel and transportation is significant because it affects everybody as a whole.
